---
layout: post
title: "Welcome"
description: "Welcome to Correlated Causation"
tagline: "Quick introduction"
tags : [intro]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Welcome!  After a number of attempts at blogging, with a variety of starts and stops, I’m back.  I’m now a senior associate at the venture capital firm Redpoint, where I focus on early stage tech investment.  I apply a product and engineering background and have a bias toward marketplaces (after working on variety at different stages).  I’m always up for a coffee or call and you can reach me [here](mailto:jdavidson@redpoint.com).

Quick background for my [story](http://www.linkedin.com/in/jamescdavidson).  I grew up in Silicon Valley and have always been enamored with technology and start ups.  I worked for a variety growing up, ultimately resulting in an internship at Google in high school.  I spent four years on the east coast where I studied Operations Research and Financial Engineering with minors in Computer Science, Finance and Engineer & Management Systems.  Upon graduation, I worked at Google starting in a quantitative engineering role working on the search ad system.  I later switched into the Associate Product Management program at Google and worked as a PM on the YouTube Search and Discovery team.

Always intending to start a company, I spent a year on leave from Google in externship at KPCB working with their digital practice.  I got to close to the lunatic fringe of start ups and left to co-found PrimaTable, with a friend from Princeton and Google.  After a series of business model experiments, we ultimately sold the company to Hotel Tonight where I joined as VP Product.  Which brings me to the latest phase, I’m now a VC at Redpoint focusing on early stage consumer tech.

I’ll be writing about my experience as a VC, sharing thoughts from the perspective of a former engineer, data and product guy. Let me know what you want to hear.